# Languages and their Endangerment Status
## Overview
The Earth has many languages, and many of those languages are being spoken less and less as globalization continues to develop. Languages like English, Chinese, German, etc... are major languages that are not in danger in loosing speakers, however many smaller languages are at risk of becoming extinct languages. Many of these languages are within countries whose national language is the main language spoken. I propose to make a visualization that would allow it to be easily seen which countries have more endangered languages, and if it would be possible to plot the location of where these languages are spoken. 
## Description of Data
The dataset I plan on visualizing contains 2,724 languages. Each language contains 9 associated atrributes. I will use the attributes that give more insight into where the language is spoken(Countries [categorical, 252 values], Country codes alpha 3 [categorical, 252 values], lattitude and longitude [interval]), what the language is called (ID [categorical, 2724 values], the number of speakers (number of speakers [quantitative, 0 - 750000]), and the endangerment status (Degree of Enangerment [ordinal, Vulnerable to Extinct]) 
+ ***The 5 levels of endangerment as defined by UNESCO***
1. **Vulnerable** - most children speak the language, but it may be restricted to certain domains (e.g., home)
2. **Definitely endangered** - children no longer learn the language as a 'mother tongue' in the home
3. **Severely endangered** - language is spoken by grandparents and older generations; while the parent generation may understand it, they do not speak it to children or among themselves
4. **Critically endangered** - the youngest speakers are grandparents and older, and they speak the language partially and infrequently
5. **Extinct** - there are no native speakers left
## Usage Scenario and Tasks
Eric has been studying linguistics and is doing research into endangered languages, he is trying to understand which countries have more endangered and extinct languages. Eric wants to be able to [compare] the amount of endangered and extinct languages in developed countries and developing countries, and [identify] which countries have more endangered languages. When Eric looks at the visualizations he may notice that many languages in developing countries are vulnerable and definetley endangered, while in developed countries many languages are either critically endangered or extinct. He could possibly hypothesize that because a nation has more critically endangered and extinct languages, the ethnic group that spoke that language could be completely, or partially, assimilated into that nations culture, so he conducts a follow up study to see if any pidgin languages, languages that are created as different language communities combine, have been created as a result of a language becoming extinct from another. 
